it's easy to understand the astonishment
of the first visitors to the islands how
were these immense sculptures made and
moved toward I'll in 1955 led a big
archeological expedition to the island
and spent several months there tried to
find out he excavated around them some
he discovered were buried up to their
waists and had strangely elongated
fingers he showed by practical
experiments that carving them was not as
difficult as it might seem for the
Rockies volcanic ash and when it's first
exposed it's quite soft and easily cut
with stone malls he then showed that in
fact it wasn't too difficult to drag the
sculptures from the quarries where they
had been carved provided that you had
enough people later still American
archaeologists transported a replica
statue standing upright using rollers
though there were no trees on the island
to provide rollers in cooks
but whichever way they were moved these
investigations made it clear that large
teams of people were needed and that
implied that there must have been at one
time a flourishing and coherent
community who would work together to
create these astonishing monuments
there's something just about him just
the way he the way he moves the way he
speaks it's very relaxing I'd be in
knots right
no yes not backtracking